---
layout: post
title: "Coding Phase 3 - Part 1"
---

So I successfully completed Phase 2 of GSoC. It has not been a smooth ride, mainly because one of my mentor backed out of the project and one has not been active in forever. So I have not been getting many reviews on my work.

Anyways, I had completed most of my work in the first two phases, or so I thought. But I ran into a problem while work on a custom action for `DuplicateFileBear`. The action is `DeleteFileAction`, on applying it deletes a file. But that is not the problem, the problem arised when two instances of `DeleteFileAction` were passed by the bear. It was giving unexpected results, and the problem turned out that coala forms and `action_dict`, a dictionary with key as the name of the class of action object and value as the action object. Naturally key should be unique, and so the problem arised. I did face an similar problem in Phase 2, when more that one instances of `AlternatePatchAction` was added to the list of actions. That time I had added a custom `get_metadata` function to `AlternatePatchAction` class, but now this was not feasible. I needed a generic solution, first thought that came to my mind was to use a key which was unique to an object. After discussing with `@abhishalya` and `@Makman2`, I decided to change the key of `action_dict` to `id` of action object.

I spent most of my time doing this and fixing tests that were broken because of this. One of the change that was made was to remove `staticmethod` from `get_metadata` function. This led to some other changes in `Processing` module and one the tests in `Processing` module was breaking. I faced this issue in Phase 1 as well, but I could figure out the cause for this, so `@abhishalya` suggested a workaround for this. It worked that time, but now those changes had to be made, and I still couldn't figure out why the test was failing.

To provide some context the test which was failing was this.
```python
    def test_without_default_action_and_unapplicable(self):
        # Use a result where no default action is supplied for and another one
        # where the action is not applicable.
        old_is_applicable = ApplyPatchAction.is_applicable
        ApplyPatchAction.is_applicable = staticmethod(
            lambda *args: 'The ApplyPatchAction cannot be applied'
        )

        self.section.append(Setting(
            'default_actions',
            'NoBear: ApplyPatchAction, YBear: ApplyPatchAction'))
        with LogCapture() as capture:
            ret = autoapply_actions(self.results,
                                    {},
                                    {},
                                    self.section,
                                    self.log_printer)
        self.assertEqual(ret, self.results)
        capture.check(
            ('root', 'WARNING', 'YBear: The ApplyPatchAction cannot be applied')
        )

        ApplyPatchAction.is_applicable = old_is_applicable

        self.section.append(Setting(
            'no_autoapply_warn', True))
        with LogCapture() as capture:
            autoapply_actions(self.results,
                              {},
                              {},
                              self.section,
                              self.log_printer)
        capture.check()

```
(Wow, the colour scheme sucks)
And the solution was adding one word: 
```python
ApplyPatchAction.is_applicable = staticmethod(old_is_applicable)
```

You wouldn't believe how many hours I wasted debugging this, and the cause turned out to be so silly. I knew that `is_applicable` was a `staticmethod` but never realised that reference to it, `old_is_applicable` was not.

Now there is only one and half week till Phase 3 evalutions start and I plan to finish all my work is this week itself. This will give me some time to get reviews on my PR and hopefully get them merged.
