---
layout: post
title: "GSoC: Officially begins!"
---

 It's been over 2 weeks since Coding Phase 1 began and 10 days remaining for evaluations of Phase 1 to start, and I am not very happy with the progress I have made so far. To be fair I did take a 5 day holiday. I still have to write two blogs for this phase and I thought I will write one today while enjoying IND vs NZ, but stupid rains! 

## What was my plan?

 So my idea was add a new attribute `actions` to `Result` class. This is a list of all the action instances. To allow this I had to revamp all the other existing actions. Currently, Result object is passed as an arugment to methods of action classes. But now actions instances were inside Result object and I had to pass that Result object to the action. Confusing right?
 I spent several minutes thinking about this and came up with a genius plan to pass necessary arguements to action objects when they are instantiated in a Result. I had started implementing this at the end of bonding period, made changes to Result and all the existing actions classes. Also wrote a new action(AddNewLineAction) for GitCommitBear, it adds a new line between shortlog and body of the commit message if it is not there. Also made all the changes `ConsoleInteraction` and `Processing` modules to incorporate the changes to result and action class. If you want to see them click [here](https://github.com/akshatkarani/coala/pull/2). Remember in the last blog I had written that I had this part figured I out, well guess what, I was wrong.

## So what went wrong?

 Till now I hadn't noticed that when `ShowPatchAction` is applied, a result object is passed a parameter to a function call. But ShowPatchAction is a element of result.actions. And it's just not worth to change the function.

## What's the plan now?

 After I realised this I again spent several more minutes thinking and came up with another genius plan but I have been told to write two blog for each phase and I think this blog is long enough.