---
layout: post
title: "Coding Phase 1"
---

It's IND vs PAK but it started raining so I thought I would write. Submissions for Phase 1 will start in a week and I have made considerable progress so far.

## What's the new plan?

Till now I was planning on having all the actions - default actions and actions defined by bears in `result.actions`. This required me to change all the existing actions which had problems of it own. The new plan was to only store actions defined by bears in `result.actions`. Changes to existing action classes were no longer necessary and changes in ConsoleInteraction and Processing modules were very few.

## TODO before Phase 1 ends

There only thing remaining is writing tests. TBH I don't quite enjoy writing tests but they are very important part also because people can come up with any actions and new system should ideally work for everything. I have written some tests testing auto-application of bear actions. I also have to write some tests for the new action which I had implemented for GitCommitBear. Currently when there is no newline between shortlog and body of commit message, running coala will only give a message saying so. But with new action, `AddNewlineAction` coala will provide you with a option to add a newline. This project is all about providing support so actions like these which are only specific to certain bears work. This open up doors for contributors to get more creative with bear writing.

## Plan for Phase 2

I have no plan.

That's not entirely true. I have to write a tutorial on how to write new actions and maybe update some documentation. Also add support for multiple patches. Rain stopped long time ago and match is getting interesting so I will continue in the next one.
